Alright, in this video,
I wanna look at some of the stuff that's going
on behind the scenes for us
in the Spring Boot configuration.
So up on the screen, I have the ThymeleafAutoConfiguration
shown on the screen.
And this is what Spring Boot is using to configure it.
We can see there's a @ConditionalOnWebApplications,
so we have type REACTIVE
and then we also have type SERVLET.
And we can see that we're having properties not found here
and I've got a couple debug points in here
so I wanna prove to you that this is in fact running
with the Thymeleaf SpringWebFluxTemplateEngine.
So this is specific for Reactive Spring,
it's in the new, latest Thymeleaf stuff.
And what I'm gonna do is go ahead
and start up the application
and we'll hit the breakpoint there.
So we can see that as we're going through,
we are in fact wiring up the SpringWebFluxTemplateEngine.
Now I'm gonna stop this and let's jump over
to our build.gradle.
And I'm going to comment out that and bring this back.
And we can see IntelliJ down there at the bottom
of the screen that's going through and re-scanning
the project.
And now, if I come in and run this in the debugger again,
we'll see that we get to a different breakpoint.
At least we should.
There we are.
So now we are back in the servlet branch.
So it's @ConditionalOnWebApplications, so this is how
Spring Boot, under the covers, is detecting it.
So by the container that we're wiring up,
Spring Boot is gonna detect if it's a reactive container
or traditional Servlet container, as it did here.
So I'm gonna stop this and return this.
Come back over to build.gradle and I'm just gonna revert
this change.
And we'll see that IntelliJ will go through
and pick up the changes again.
And we'll go ahead and build this.
There we are.
And now if I go back and run the debugger again
we'll see it go back to the reactive configuration.
IntelliJ didn't pick up the changes yet.
So one problem I'm having there is, IntelliJ is not picking
up the Gradle changes.
So I'm gonna say come in here, sometimes it doesn't,
I did a revert so it didn't see the file change.
So now it's going through and should get it again.
There, now we're back into reactive
and what happened there is I made a change
to build.gradle and IntelliJ didn't pick up the changes
right away, so it, the project was still configured
to the old way.
So sometimes you got to watch that when you're working
with the IDs.
But the core take away that I want you to have here
is to understand if you start searching on the web
about configuration for Thymeleaf and Reactive Spring,
you're gonna see some stuff out there.
This area is evolving very quickly.
Two months ago I'm recording this in August of 2017,
two, three months ago, this stuff wasn't there
and you would have to have manually configure it
but now this is all baked into Spring Boot
and Spring Boot is doing that
Thymeleaf Reactive configuration for us.
And that configuration is getting picked up based
on the Servlet container that is running.
So if we have a traditional Servlet container,
it goes Servlet.
If we have a reactive container,
it's going to pick up this type REACTIVE.
So if you're not used to this, Spring Boot is making
these decisions based on the configuration
of your environment.
And I also wanna point out there's no source code
associated with this, this was just a demonstration
of Spring Boot.
So there's no source code in GitHub for this piece here.
But if you are looking for the class,
it's ThymeleafAutoConfiguration if you wanna look at that
in your own IDE and see how Spring
is doing this configuration of Thymeleaf for us.
Go ahead and take a look at that.
Strongly encourage you to start taking a look
at what Spring Boot is doing under the covers.
Because it does do a lot of interesting stuff for us
in making those choices for the sensible defaults
in our configurations.